### What is Laravel?
> Laravel is primarily used for building custom web apps using PHP. It's a web framework that handles many things that are annoying to build yourself, such as routing, templating HTML, and authentication. ... Rails is another server-side rendered framework, similar to Laravel, but based on Ruby.

### What is Composer?
> Composer is a tool for dependency management in PHP. It allows you to declare the libraries your project depends on and it will manage (install/update) them for you.

### How to manage libraries, dependencies in Laravel?
1. Composer is a dependency manager for PHP. Composer will manage the dependencies you require on a project by project basis. This means that Composer will pull in all the required libraries, dependencies and manage them all in one place. ... PEAR is an established PHP package manager that has been around for years.

2. In a nutshell, we need a tool which can be used to install libraries and manage application dependencies. Composer does a great job of this. It is an application-level package manager for PHP that has gained immense popularity and become the de facto standard for managing dependencies in PHP applications.

### How to Install Composer?
> Directly Install the Composer Installer and Restart the Computer

### Manually will generate problem instead use Installer
1. Set the PHP Environment Variable in System Enviornment > path
	***C:\xampp\php***
2. in the Command prompt use the following command
	***php -version***
3. then visit the url and Run the top three commands one by one from URL
	[Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/)
	*php -r "copy\('https://getcomposer.org/installer', 'composer-setup.php'\);"*
	*php composer-setup.php*
4. then run the following command to verify is installed via php but we need to install it globally
	*php composer.phar*
5. Run the Following Command to Convert the composer.phar into composer.bat
	*C:\Users\M Ahsan> echo @php "%~dp0composer.phar" %*>composer.bat*
6. Add the following System Environment Variable in path
	*C:\ProgramData\ComposerSetup\bin*
7. Run the following commands if doesn't work then follow the 7 step
	*composer -v*
	*composer -V*

8. Download and install the Composer to set Enviroment Variables 
	https://getcomposer.org/Composer-Setup.exe 
	that installation will automatically done the following
>		 Add to System path: *C:\ProgramData\ComposerSetup\bin*
>		 Remove from System path: *C:\composer*

### How to install Laravel?
> To Install the Laravel you have php and composer already install and php System Environment Variable must be set.
1. Visit the following URL and follow the instruction to install Laravel.
>	*https://laravel.com/docs/8.x#installation-via-composer*
2. Run the command to install Laravel Globally
>	*composer global require laravel/installer*
3. Set the Global Path for Laravel
>	*C:\Users\M Ahsan\AppData\Roaming\Composer\vendor\bin*
4. laravel -V / -v

### How to Create and Serve Project in Laravel?
>	*laravel new example-app*
>	*laravel new example-app --git --branch="main"*
>	**cd example-app**
>	*php artisan serve*

### How to Create and Serve Laravel Project using Composer?
>   *composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel Learn_Laravel*

### What are the Files and Folder Structure of Laravel Project?
### Introduction
> The default Laravel application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Laravel imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class. (Laravel Directory Structure)[https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/structure]
### Root
> app : *The app directory contains the core code of your application*
### bootstrap : 
*The bootstrap directory contains the app.php file which bootstraps the framework.*
### config : 
*contains all of your application's configuration files*
### database : 
*The database directory contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds.*
### public : 
*index.php file, which is the entry point for all requests entering your application and configures autoloading*
### resources : 
*views as well as your raw, un-compiled assets such as CSS or JavaScript, language files*
### routes : 
*route files are included with Laravel: *
> **web.php*: session state, CSRF protection, and cookie encryption. RESTful API
> **api.php*: These routes are intended to be stateless
> **console.php*: define all of your closure based console commands
> **channels.php*: register all of the event broadcasting channels
### storage : 
*logs, compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework.*
### tests : 
*PHPUnit unit tests and feature tests are provided out of the box.*
### vendor : 
The vendor directory contains your Composer dependencies
### App : 
*The majority of your application is housed in the app directory.*
### Broadcasting :  
*This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you when you create your first channel.*
### Console : 
*This directory also houses your console kernel, which is where your custom Artisan commands are registered and your scheduled tasks are defined.*
### Events : 
*The Events directory houses event classes. Events may be used to alert other parts of your application*
### Exceptions : 
*application's exception handler and is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application.*
### Http : 
*The Http directory contains your controllers, middleware,*
### Jobs : 
*The Jobs directory houses the queueable jobs for your application.*
### Listeners : 
*The Listeners directory contains the classes that handle your events.*
### Mail : 
*Mail objects allow you to encapsulate all of the logic of building an email in a single, *
### Models :  
*The Eloquent ORM included with Laravel provides a beautiful, simple ActiveRecord implementation for working with your database.*
### Notifications : 
*contains all of the "transactional" notifications that are sent by your application, *
### Policies : 
*authorization policy classes for your application.*
### Providers : 
*service providers for your application. Service providers bootstrap your application by binding services in the service container*
### Rules : 
*The Rules directory contains the custom validation rule objects for your application.*
